Chair would like to begin by welcoming the guests who have come to the committee room and
who had managed them concerning a standing committee room, which we are enforcing vigorously.
I would like to call the attention of our guests in the rear of the room, therefore, the fact
that we have a standing committee position of approval or any time during these shifts.
The uniformed officers who are in the room and the plane closements gathered among you
have orders from the committee.
To immediately and politely escort from the room without further notice from the chair,
any of our guests who choose to violate the conditions under which you enter the room,
namely to refrain from many manifestations of approval or disapproval.
I hope that we will continue to have these splendid cooperation from the audience which
we have enjoyed throughout these protracted hearings.
As we had concluded, the last witness yesterday, we were hearing some of the collateral witnesses
in the presentation of the Army side of this country.
Mr. Council Jenkins, I understand there are additional witnesses to be heard in the
presentation of the position of Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams, and I will ask you there for
you to follow the next witness.
The chairman I should like this fan to call Captain Miller.
You, Captain Miller, you stand in the room.
You follow me, President, the testimony here of how to give as a truth to the whole truth
or nothing but the truth, so I hope you got it.
I do, sir.
You may be seated.
And subject to your approval, Mr. Chairman, I should like Mr. Charles Maynard to examine
Captain Miller.
I am Captain Joseph J. Miller.
I am the company commander of K. Company, the two-stabnd second infantry, which was formerly
the 47th when the 5th was my company.
You were company commander in November of 1953, sir.
Yes, sir, I was.
State, when you first learned that the private shine would be a sign to your company.
I was first informed that the private shine would be a member of my company on 19 November,
1953 when I was called to the office of my regimental commander, together with various
other officers of the regiment.
I was informed that private shine was to be a member of my company for basic training
and that private shine was still completing some work for the incident and permanent subcommittee
on investigation.
And that I would be called upon to give private shine passes as various times to do this
work.
I was further informed that I was not of my own authority authorized to give private
shine these passes, but that the authority would be communicated to me through the panel.
And that when such authority was communicated to me, I was to make private shine available
for this work.
That information was all given to you by your regimental commander, yes sir it was.
And who was your regimental commander at that time?
Colonel Earl L. Ringler.
That occurred on the 19th of November.
Then when did you first see private shine?
I first saw private shine shortly after lunch when the trainees were brought to company
K from the reception center.
Was that also on the 19th of November sir?
Yes sir it was.
Did you discuss the matter of ties with them with private shine at that time?
Yes sir I did.
As soon as the company was formed and put on, I went out to inspect the operation and
had private shine sent to me.
I told him to report to the orderly room and when I came in to report to me in my office.
There I discussed with private shine the fact that I was appraised of the necessity of
having private shine available for frequent passes to complete committee work which was
an impromptu.
I told him that I was not of my own authority to give him these passes but that such authority
would be communicated to me through channels.
And that's whenever private shine was to go on pass I would make him immediately available.
I emphasize that it was not my authority to grant him passes during the first four
weeks of basic training.
Is it on this occasion, the chapter Miller that private shine made some offers to you
about some personal assistance that he could win these?
No sir it wasn't that later in the afternoon to tell him about that occasion later if
you will kept him in.
Yes sir that occasion occurred later in the afternoon.
When I was passing through the bar to see how the trainees were coming along with their
housekeeping accommodations, I passed through the third fortune where private shine was
assigned and upon passing through the lower floor, private shine was at its bulk getting
its things in order and because I had to notify the private shine was to go on pass that day
I inquired to see how he was coming along with his arrangement of his bulk area and getting
his equipment in order so that his path to the weekend would not interfere with the
commencement of training on Monday morning.
During this conversation private shine asked me or told me rather that if I ever wanted
to make a little trip to Florida that he knew a Colonel Bradley but here I cut him off
in the middle of the day who Colonel Bradley was.
Sir at that time I didn't know who Colonel Bradley was but because of their remarks I made
inquiry to find out who this Colonel Bradley could possibly be and whether he was assigned
to the post and I didn't learn until about two months later the Colonel Bradley was actually
of McGuire Air Force Base.
Go ahead and describe the incident further.
Further than that I told private shine that it was improper for officers to accept any
kind of favors or any kind of gifts from trainees or enlisted persons because it would put
them in a back position as far as their enforcement of discipline.
It would compromise that position of officers in the Army.
Were there other incidents when the private shine approached you with similar offers of
assistance?
No sir there were not and this offer of assistance was for the only occasion I felt at that
time that an admonition reminder that it wasn't proper for officers to accept the favors
of this type was sufficient and it was ever a recurrent.
Have you ever had other privates in your command to offer favors to you?
No I have not sir.
Now as to if during the time private shine was in your command you granted him any preferential
treatment.
This regarding the past is all those past were issues on order from higher authority were
they not?
No sir that there is some explanation all the past were not issued on order of higher authority
I granted three past of my own authority by company's policy.
Those are the past which are granted to all trainees is that correct?
Yes sir they are on various merits but other than those three past was all past were
granted on order from higher authority were they not?
Yes sir they were.
Now other than the granting of both past which were granted on orders from higher authority
they private shine received any preferential treatment while he was in your command.
No sir to my knowledge private seren we received no preferential treatment other than that
necessary to make him available for this committee fifth.
There has been some allegations about his writings of the rifle range and the cable for
the truck and some other things.
Do you know anything about those allegations?
I know sir some of those allegations because I personally participated in those in the
incident with which incidents are you familiar with?
Yes sir.
It would be necessary for you to mention the incident and then I could go into them however
much of the material in those allegations came to light after the training cycle was finished
and because of certain reports to newspapers by trainees in the company and they included
information which would not ordinarily be available to me unless it were reported.
You did not personally supervise the training is that correct?
I am responsible for the training in the company however I have 250 men there and I have
the over-over responsibility it is however delegated.
The actual training is in the hands of a platoon sergeant is that correct?
The platoon sergeant I had a platoon officer with me and there are also instructors who
provided by regiment who also aid in the training.
The allegation in particular that private shine rose to the rifle range when other trainees
were walking is the do you know anything about that?
Yes sir on the morning of 14 December I had sent the rest of the trainees out to the
range on the available transportation two and a half tons truck.
After signing the morning report about 6.30 in the morning I proceeded to go to the range
myself.
When I passed the men's hall there was one of my trucks parked with the motorbunning and
this was unusual because I had directed that the transportation was to return directly
to the motorpool on completing the transfer of the trainees from the company area to the
range.
I went around to the driver's side of the truck to admire the driver for not returning
directly to the motorpool.
I did so and then noticed that there was another soldier sitting in the truck on the other
side.
I looked through the truck and saw it and was five at sign.
I therefore passed the public show and what he was doing is riding back and forth from
the range in the truck while the rest of the trainees were at the range being formed
into firing order and preparing to fire.
I was especially annoyed that morning because it was raining heavily.
I was a little bit disappointed to be testifying about some incidents of preferential treatment
with some requests made by myself.
I sent in a copy of Mr. Clark or anyone connected with the committee and bearing on the proceeding
being held here in this room.
I didn't understand that.
Mr. Chair, we expect to show later whether or not that was a result of any request on the
point.
I wonder if Mr. Maynard just in fanaticals, if you can inquire of top and miller, whether
he ever met a sent in a copy myself, Mr. Clark or anyone from the committee said whether
or not he ever received any request whatsoever from any of us.
I have every change in the basket into an action battle I have up with I.
We don't.
You may as well be familiar with that, particularly interested in any preferential treatment
from fireless shadow which might have originated with the Army.
I believe that I was at the force of the incident where I was at from private time,
what he was doing riding back and forth from the range in the truck.
Private time there was only that he was studying logistics.
That comment was Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Chairman, I'm fine with you.
I have to avoid something.
I am in favor of this, this would be called.
This may be very funny, maybe a good show, but I am shy and wrongly here and in the back
unless there is something to do with a request or special privilege to make me proper.
We are going to say that this is what this goes on.
We continue to testify about whether a child is riding the cab or in the back of a truck
and conversations he has had with him.
It will mean that we are going to those issues out of 12.
There are a number of officers to show the animosity, the personal dislike between this and Mr. Shrine.
I have the sixth of issues.
I want to do that.
He is not sick of issues now.
I say it may be funny, it may be a good show.
The council may love it, but I would suggest that the chairman, I would suggest that the chair has got his son in front of his rod and what is not.
The council may have to come before the chairman and the chair is taken and the council is taken.
They are going to be fooled by interaglicase whether or not this chair is all of us, whether or not he is no curd and whether or not it is all of us.
Many things are suggested by members of the committee.
The chairman has asked me and I have exited in shortening my evaluation of what this is, cutting down our witnesses to a very minimum.
With the understanding of the first, we take the issues.
The chair has a heavy duty here and that is to determine first whether or not this matter is anything is wrong, unless Mr. Chairman.
I went to Mr. Coll or myself or with the car or someone's making with us.
I asked that Mr. Shrine study logistics or riding the cab on a rainy day or something about the cold.
This is the complete list of time and it will mean that we are going into those here-olden matters.
We can't let them stand. We will have to follow what Mr. Dome the other.
So I have to prove why the current list here is up to the council's budget procedure and demonstrate whether or not this is all of us.
The council has asked these questions any day on the way.
Mr. Commander, proceed Captain Miller.
Mr. Chairman, may I ask this again?
Sir, I think we could save a lot of time.
Please, Mr. Mayor, ask for one on nine.
Mr. Chairman, I have to ask this question.
Mr. Coll and I am sorry.
I make a point of order, sir. On a question of relevancy and materiality without the appropriate point of order.
It will be made during the course of the interrogation.
That brought up the minute that time.
Mr. Chairman.
And I am spending this time not merely on this witness, but on another witness as I assume will be called.
I think rather than spend too hard and then ask for their not.
No, the material is relevant.
Then ask for their not because of the result of action in part of this committee.
I think the chair should determine that to begin with.
There is no question the chair is mind up to this point in the discussion of the cabinet in relevance because it was the best.
Both on your side of the table and the other many times.
Just enough.
And we can't just determine the fact that you're all of the witnesses.
Mr. Chairman, this is the last.
I do think the chair should to begin with before he spends an hour with the witness.
Find out whether or not there was any request from any member of this committee to the panel or the captain.
If not, this is going to be your element.
Now, do you want to spend too early?
First, and then sign up for the gentleman.
You're going to have to try to look at the next two hours of the committee.
I promise he will be left with two hours.
Captain Miller will you proceed.
I believe I asked private sign what he was doing in the cab to talk in private sign so that he was studying logistics.
I asked private sign how he presumes the study logistics of all the rest of the trainees who are out on a range being formed in the fire and ordered to prepare in the fire.
And I instruct the driver to take private sign immediately to the range and then returns to the mortar pool.
And when I've done so, the answer that was done.
Now, if you ever have any contact, whatever, personally, by telephone or otherwise, even with 100 McCarthy,
or any member of his staff,
what's the right is that?
Did you ever see the mother's injury in this room?
What's the, that's the close relative of McCarthy, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Carr and the other members of the staff?
Yes, sir.
Did anyone of those gentlemen ever ask me directly or indirectly for any type of proprancial treatment for private sign?
What was that?
Did you ever grant any proprancial treatment to private sign?
I believe that question was asked previously and I stated that in making private sign.
I failed before committee.
This is what this was writing that makes me available for committee business.
Did you ever grant any special privileges of any kind?
No, sir, I did not.
Did you ever grant any trainee any special privileges?
Do you know anything else that occurred that fire that would have any bearing?
All we issues in controversy here.
I would be prepared to answer any questions put by members of the committee,
but I am not a judge as to the relevance of any of the material which I may present this morning, sir.
On this occasion, by when you described and when you found him the cab was a truck,
he made any statements for you as to what his purposes were at Fort Nick's other than the state that he was studying for logistics.
And also that occurred later in the morning.
On the same day, yes, sir, describe that incident kept him there.
When I arrived at the range after having sent private sign out with the truck,
I found that private sign was discussing something with the field first sergeant
and the I came up to them and determined that private sign was trying to get slight
in an earlier firing order so that he might be finished early.
It was not apparent to me at that time that there was any particular reason for this
because the flow authority for a pass for that evening was then communicated to me.
And unless it were, there would be no reason for giving private sign any preference
in the handling of the training for the day.
I had further advised private sign upon his first day in the company that he was to ask no favors
from the cadrie of the company because they were also lying to grant him no favors.
I wanted to take that responsibility myself.
I had further advised the cadrie at a meeting on the first day that they were doing nothing for private sign in the way his favors
would refer all his recluses to me.
Therefore, the field first sergeant was being compromised on that morning.
I told private sign that he should not have approached the field first sergeant for any favors
because I instructed both he and the field first that nothing was to be done without my authority.
And I was admiring him for this and he asked me if it might not be possible to lower my voice.
I must admit that I was angry at the time.
I continued to admire private sign and he put his hand on my shoulder and attempted to draw me inside.
I pushed his hand away.
However, since the rest of the group was preparing to march up to the firing line, I testified with private sign.
He said that our relations had been good up this time.
He enjoyed being with the company and that he didn't like to have incidents of the kind that occurred at the time earlier in the morning.
And they were just embarrassing to him.
And he told me that he would like us to have good relations in the future.
He therefore enthoned me that it was his purpose to remake the American North-Harris-South, a law-modern line.
He elaborated somewhat on this item but largely ignored the conversation that seemed a little ridiculous to me.
And I told private sign to close the discussion that he could only keep our relations good in the future by following my orders and accomplishing the company.
Did he state from whom he had authorities to modernize the army?
No sir, I didn't acquire a lawless barn.
Since you ever, other than you grant private sign, houses when they were all prized from higher authority,
relieving them from any duty that he was to perform, either in training or other than training.
Would you please repeat that question, sir?
Other than to grant him these houses which you were authorized by higher authority to grant,
did you ever relieve private sign from any duty of any kind?
J.C.D.D.D.D. or any other duty?
There were two incidents of this type.
The first incident was on the 8th of December.
Private sign was on K.P. and Gattabre's release from K.P. at 1 o'clock in the afternoon for the purpose of attending a make-up class in two-implementation programs.
That was in connection with his training, however, was it not yet?
Yes, it was.
And it was necessary for him to make up that training which he had missed.
Yes sir, it was.
Now, other than that, did you ever relieve it from K.P. or from any other duty that he was required to perform and for this?
And then incident occurred on the 10th of January, which was the result of an inadvertent administrative error within the company.
Private sign was scheduled for K.P. on the 10th of January.
And because I invented to be absent that weekend, and because it may be possible for private sign to receive a pass that weekend, as he had received one on each other weekend,
I had prepared an order which would place the next most available man on K.P. on Sunday in the event private sign where we leave.
Death I am sorry to say was inadvertently posted on the Bolton board and resulted in some confusion on Sunday in which it was necessary for the regional commander to grant private sign a pass and relieve him from the K.P. detail.
You do not regard any of those instances as constituting preferential treatment that you take.
And also I do not. Now, did you ever relieve it from K.P. or from any of those things that you do in connection with his training? You know what?
Did he go through the same training as every other soldier at Fort Dicks?
Private sign completed all of the prescribed training necessary to make a well-rounded soldier during the first eight weeks of training.
I heard anything else you know that the concerning private sign is to reduce Fort Dicks that has any bearing in it.
Doctor, there is not that's all.
Captain Miller, I want to recapitulate with you if I can the relevant questions of your testimony.
I'm not just sure if I Mr. Welch asked that you'd be called as a witness unless it is to show that preferential treatment was recorded to private sign at the insistence or under the threat.
I was sent to a maternity or Mr. Cohen or Mr. Carp because quite obviously this committee is not interested in any preferential treatment which might have been given to any of the 30,000 of private to Fort Dicks because of error and judgment on the part of the Army.
The confirmation of error, whether it is not of our concern, we're not investigating the Army.
The Army made some mistakes in its accounting systems, according systems of records.
If it made some mistakes about letting people ride in cabs of trucks, those are not the concern of this committee now unless you can show.
And those are the questions I'm going to ask you.
Are those sensations occurred because the Army was afraid of Senator McCarthy and his staff or that the Army had been ordered to do so?
And if you want to say that, then of course you have a perfect right to do so and I presume that that's the relevant part of your testimony.
So let me ask you, sir, whether you have any evidence at all, that whoever committed private sign to ride in the cab of that truck did so because of fear of Senator McCarthy's committee or under orders of Senator McCarthy.
Or was it an Army determination?
This was the result of an effort or an inadvertently on private sign to create the impression that he was at Fort Dicks for a purpose other than basic training.
The question was not asked me that way. I was not asked whether I'm trying to find out the relevant portions now of private sign right in the cab.
Whether it grew out of the fact that he had received or that you had received for some of you to appear used or some of your lesser opportunities had received or used from somebody to give private sign to a preferential treatment.
No, so I would say that that incident grew out of no orders or directions from higher-hecks words to give any preferential treatment to private sign.
Was it because in your opinion there was a sort of fear on the part of the officers at Fort Dicks of the McCarthy committee so that they were making concessions to private sign, according to the favor of McCarthy's common car.
Did you understand, opinion?
My honest opinion on that there is space upon material which I have gathered after basic training was completed.
I find that there was some reluctance upon the part of the cadre and other trainees to interfere with the activities of private sign.
Although they had no direction to this, they did, however, that reluctance comes from people over you or under you from people underneath them.
Did you order them to demonstrate such reluctance? No, sir, I did not. Did you have such reluctance yourself? No, sir, I did not.
Did anything channel through you from your superior officers or direct from the McCarthy staff indicating that you should tell you in for use to have a reluctance continue with sign?
No, sir. So that if they had a reluctance it is because of a relationship specifically between sign and the technique.
Very well. Now, let me ask you this, my attention was diverted. I wasn't quite sure the special favor that you asked, the two said, private sign asked you to convey at the foot of the bunk one day.
He said, you had stopped to him and he said, Captain, if you ever going to be in Florida, I know a captain Bradley and then my attention was diverted.
What did you offer to do? The officer was, as I stated, that if I ever wanted to make a little trip to Florida, private sign knew a Colonel Bradley and his portion of the quotation, I cut private sign off because it was not policy for officers to receive favors from training.
I think you were quite correct in setting him off when I'm trying to find out now what favor he had in mind, do you know?
Well, as you only tell you that Colonel Bradley had a nice sister, he might not have introduced you to or that's how I would kindly manage one of his hotels.
Colonel Bradley, this happened to be there and he wished you'd convey his greetings to him. What was the favor?
I couldn't say what the favor was because I wasn't interested in finding out what it was at the time, or if that's not quite sure whether he was going to convey a favor or not because you cut him off and appropriately so, but you cut him off so soon he hadn't figured it, is that right?
Yes, sir. So the favor is one that looms up in your imagination, you would do me with going to ask what and maybe he was, I don't know.
But it's entirely possible, he might have said this to convey my greetings to Colonel Bradley or Colonel Bradley knows some places down there where you could go down and get acquainted with some folks, something of that time, you don't know what he was going to say.
So I couldn't have said Colonel Bradley owns a hotel for me, maybe I was going to give you a suite of hotels if you don't know.
I couldn't buy a high-possibly that type of service, Colonel Bradley is an officer at the Lyra Air Force base, there would only be one out of four.
Connection possible, that would be transportation.
Did you know Colonel Bradley was an officer at Colonel Air Base, also I had to trouble that later?
You thought then the in retrospect that probably you were talking about transportation down the floor?
Yes, sir, so I knew I had no connection with girls.
Okay, I'm just trying to find out because when you stopped him as you properly should have, but the word am, you foreclosed the committee from finding out exactly what he had in mind at the same time foreclosing yourself.
That's all the question I guess, Senator Patel.
How long had you known Private Shine before he made this suggestion to you about a tardy?
About an hour, sir.
About an hour.
Why did you have to advise Private Shine?
That he was not the ass favors of others under your command?
I felt there that the position was private, so I had with the subcommittee an associated my handling the matter of direct sleep, and also the fact that Private Shine would be granted frequent passes.
I felt that anything I connected with that could be handled by me personally so that the thing would run smoothly.